# Artificial Doctor
#### Quickly Find Out Your Disease

Artificial Doctor is designed with three main parts, namely the machine learning (ML) model, the web-based interface and the main part of the application. If sorted by the manufacturing steps, then the first thing to do is create a machine learning model. While the main application and the interface can be done simultaneously. Making machine learning models using python notebook (ipynb), web-based user interfaces using HTML, CSS and jQuery combined with Jinja-based Flask templates in terms of sending data between python and HTML. Whereas the main application uses pure python with the Flask library.

### ML Model
The data science method is used in this step. The first thing to do is provide a dataset that is relevant to the case, namely disease prediction based on symptoms. Then according to the data science method, the steps taken include exploratory data analysis (EDA), data preparation, data preprocessing, modeling and evaluation. From the resulting model, the deployment process will then be carried out into an application. In making this model, the Python Notebook file format (ipynb file) is used to make it easier to do data analysis.
To carry out EDA, data preparation and data preprocessing, the pandas library is used in python, while the Scikit Learn (sklearn) library is used to carry out the model creation process and the method or class used for model creation is the Random Forest Classifier. After all the processes have gone through properly, the model resulting from the training process is stored in a Pickle file. This file will later be loaded in the application during the deployment process.

### Web-based Interface 
Because this web application is based on flask, the interface page must be created in the template directory. Pages that can be created before the process of making the main part of the application are basic views such as index, prediction form, about and contact. Meanwhile, the prediction results page can be created simultaneously when creating the main part of the application. To beautify the appearance of the application, CSS and Bootstrap are used and to customize the form component, javascript (jQuery) is used, especially the select component so that a search can be carried out when selecting symptoms. To facilitate file administration, the CSS files, javascript and images are placed in a directory called static.

### Main Part
This section becomes the core of the application. We give the name app.py because it uses python with the Flask library. The app.py file contains the process of loading a machine learning model in pickle file format, routing to web pages according to requests and most importantly the process of retrieving data from HTML forms and processing them with machine learning models to produce output in the form of disease prediction results. To carry out the prediction process, we get data from multiple select in a list format. Because the model only accepts test data in the form of a DataFrame (pandas) which consists of 17 columns, the data from the select component must be converted to a DataFrame with the form of 17 columns 1 row. This is a pain in itself, but luckily in python it can be done in a simple way.
